PORT-2432-Execution-secret-user-input-in-self-service-action (#450)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/create-self-service-experiences/setup-ui-for-action/user-inputs/secret.md

---
sidebar_position: 14

> description: Secret is an input whose value is encrypted and is never saved in Port's Databases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Secret is an input whose value is encrypted with your client secret when sent to your backend and is never saved or logged in its transit.
```

---

import ApiRef from "../../../api-reference/\_learn_more_reference.mdx"

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs"
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem"

# Secret

> Secret is an input whose value is encrypted and is never saved by Port (not even after the encryption).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Secret input is an input type used to pass secrets and sensitive information to action backends, the values sent via the secret input go through an additional layer of symmetric encryption using your private key. In addition, the values sent via the secret input are not logged or saved by Port.
```

## 💡 Common Secret Usage

The secret input type can be used for sensitive information, such as:

- Cloud secrets;

> - Passwords;

Reviewer: Also add:
API keys
Secret tokens

- etc.

## Secret Input Structure

A secret input is defined as a regular input, but with the additional `encryption` field which specifies the encryption algorithm to use:

```json showLineNumbers
{
  "mySecretInput": {
    "title": "My secret input",
    "icon": "My icon",
    "type": "string",
    // highlight-start
    "encryption": "fernet",
    // highlight-end
    "description": "My entity input"
  }
}
```

### Supported Ecnryption Algortithms

> [fernet](https://cryptography.io/en/latest/fernet/) - Your organization's [Client Secret](../../../build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/api/#find-your-port-credentials) will be used as the encryption key.

Author: There should still be a reference to fernet all in lowercase as its the value that needs to be set to the encryption fields.

I don't like my phrasing but couldn't think of anything better than this.

### Supported Types

[string](./text.md) - For `"type": "string"` properties the inputted value will be taken as is and encrypted. It is not supported to have both an `encryption` for a string input and `format`.

[object](./object.md) - For `"type": "object"` properties the inputted Json value will be treated as a string and encrypted without further manipulation.

## Handling the Payload

> The payload sent to your infrastructure will have the secret property's value will be encrypted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The payload sent to your infrastructure will contain the encrypted value of your secret property inputs. To make use of your secret inputs, you will need to decrypt them:
```

> In most cases you will need to decrypt it before you could use it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> ### Example Invokees

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Examples
```

> <details>

Reviewer: Instead of using 2 details blocks, use 2 parent tabs, one for Python and one for Javascript
